# State Management in ASP.NET

two types of State Management : **Client-Side State Management** and **Server-Side State Management.**
 
## Client-Side State Management :  
Whenever we use Client-Side State Management, the state related information will directly get stored on the client-side.
That specific information will travel back and communicate with every request generated by the user then afterwards provides responses after server-side communication.

Client-Based State Management Options : 

- **View State** : In general we can say it is used for storing user data in ASP.NET, sometimes in ASP.NET applications the user wants to maintain or store their data 
  temporarily after a post-back.. In this case VIEW STATE is the most used and preferred way of doing that.
 
    This property is enabled by default but we can make changes depending on our functionality, what we need to do is just change the EnableViewState value to either TRUE for 
    enabling it or FALSE for the opposite operation.
    
    
- **Hidden field** : A hidden field is used for storing small amounts of data on the client side. In most simple words it's just a container of some objects but their result 
   is not rendered on our web browser. It is invisible in the browser.
 
    It stores a value for the single variable and it is the preferable way when a variable's value is changed frequently but we don't need to keep track of that every 
    time in our application or web program.
    
    
- **Cookies** : A set of Cookies is a small text file that is stored in the user's hard drive using the client's browser. Cookies are just used for the sake of the user's 
   identity matching as it only stores information such as sessions id's, some frequent navigation or post-back request objects.
   
   
- **Control State** : Control state is based on the custom control option. For expected results from CONTROL STATE we need to enable the property of view state. 
  
  
- **Query Strings** : Query strings are used for some specific purpose. These in a general case are used for holding some value from a different page and move these values 
  to the different page. The information stored in it can be easily navigated to one page to another or to the same page as well.
  

## Server-Side State Management : 
Server-Side State Management is different from Client-Side State Management but the operations and working is somewhat the same in functionality.
In Server-Side State Management all the information is stored in the user memory. Due to this functionality there is more secure domains at the server side in comparison to 
Client-Side State Management.

Server-Based State Management Options:

- **Application State** : It is a global storage to store the value which will be accessible to all the pages. It also store the data into key/value pair. 
  Server auto manages all the activity on application state data and does not expose it to client. The information stored into application state is accessible to all the page.


- **Session State** : ASP.NET allows you to save values by using session state — which is an instance of the HttpSessionState class for each active Web-application session.
  Session state is similar to application state, except that it is scoped to the current browser session. If different users are using your application, each user session will 
  have a different session state. In addition, if a user leaves your application and then returns later, the second user session will have a different session state from the first. 
